README.md, before:

# Project: UFRN's Open Data Evaluation - Canceled Registrations from 2009 to 2016 #

## Students: ##

20170000600 - Gabriel Igor Queiroz Costa - `gabriel.igorq@gmail.com` <br>
20170060090 - João Pedro de Amorim Paula - `jpedrodeamorim@gmail.com` <br>
20170063851 - Vitor Henrique Coelho Bezerra - `vitorhenrique908@gmail.com`

## 1. Introduction ##

The [Open Data Portal of the Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte -
UFRN](http://dados.ufrn.br/group/ensino "Dados Abertos UFRN") is a tool which
main objective is to make available, to the whole community, public information
of the Institution.

In this notebook, we accessed data from the students of the university with the
goal to analyze the quantity of canceled registrations between 2009 and 2016.
With this in mind, we used `csv` containing all of the students that entered the
university on each year, form 2009 to 2016, and kept only the graduation
students, allowing us to focus more on our reality.

## 2. Tools used ##

We used `python` in a [Jupyter Notebook][1], which is a platform to _"develop
open-source software and services to interact with computing across dozens of
programming languages"_ according to their [website][1].

The libraries used were:

1. [`numpy`](http://numpy.org "numpy.org")
2. [`pandas`](https://pandas.pydata.org "pandas.pydata.org")
3. [`matplotlib`](https://matplotlib.org "matplotlib.org")
4. [`seaborn`](https://seaborn.pydata.org/index.html "seborn.pydata.org")

[1]: https://jupyter.org/ "Jupyter"

## 3. Objective ##

Our objective was to analyze the evasion rate on each study area, to help the
university to identify in which areas it is most lacking with the students, or
which area needs more attention in either the way the courses are being taught
or the stimulus as a whole for the students is low.

## 4. Details ##

To make it all happen we had the following steps:

1. Import the libraries
2. Read each `csv` file and store the `pandas` DataFrame in a variable
3. Remove unwanted columns
4. Separate the canceled and active students each in a different DataFrame
5. Merge all of the years into a single `pandas.pivot_table`
6. Create a DataFrame for each of the study areas
7. Generate a line graph for each of the study areas
8. Generate a graph comparing all of the study areas' result

### References ###

1. <http://dados.ufrn.br/group/ensino>
2. <http://numpy.org>
3. <https://pandas.pydata.org>
4. <https://matplotlib.org>
5. <https://seaborn.pydata.org/index.html>
6. <https://jupyter.org/>

Commit message:

Adding the youtube video's link.

README.md, after:

# Project: UFRN's Open Data Evaluation - Canceled Registrations from 2009 to 2016 #

## Students: ##

20170000600 - Gabriel Igor Queiroz Costa - `gabriel.igorq@gmail.com` <br>
20170060090 - João Pedro de Amorim Paula - `jpedrodeamorim@gmail.com` <br>
20170063851 - Vitor Henrique Coelho Bezerra - `vitorhenrique908@gmail.com`

## 1. Introduction ##

The [Open Data Portal of the Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte -
UFRN](http://dados.ufrn.br/group/ensino "Dados Abertos UFRN") is a tool which
main objective is to make available, to the whole community, public information
of the Institution.

In this notebook, we accessed data from the students of the university with the
goal to analyze the quantity of canceled registrations between 2009 and 2016.
With this in mind, we used `csv` containing all of the students that entered the
university on each year, form 2009 to 2016, and kept only the graduation
students, allowing us to focus more on our reality.

## 2. Tools used ##

We used `python` in a [Jupyter Notebook][1], which is a platform to _"develop
open-source software and services to interact with computing across dozens of
programming languages"_ according to their [website][1].

The libraries used were:

1. [`numpy`](http://numpy.org "numpy.org")
2. [`pandas`](https://pandas.pydata.org "pandas.pydata.org")
3. [`matplotlib`](https://matplotlib.org "matplotlib.org")
4. [`seaborn`](https://seaborn.pydata.org/index.html "seborn.pydata.org")

[1]: https://jupyter.org/ "Jupyter"

## 3. Objective ##

Our objective was to analyze the evasion rate on each study area, to help the
university to identify in which areas it is most lacking with the students, or
which area needs more attention in either the way the courses are being taught
or the stimulus as a whole for the students is low.

## 4. Details ##

To make it all happen we had the following steps:

1. Import the libraries
2. Read each `csv` file and store the `pandas` DataFrame in a variable
3. Remove unwanted columns
4. Separate the canceled and active students each in a different DataFrame
5. Merge all of the years into a single `pandas.pivot_table`
6. Create a DataFrame for each of the study areas
7. Generate a line graph for each of the study areas
8. Generate a graph comparing all of the study areas' result

## 5. Youtube Video ##

To understand the project you can also watch a video available on [this link](https://youtu.be/jIeqf81bPvM). 

### References ###

1. <http://dados.ufrn.br/group/ensino>
2. <http://numpy.org>
3. <https://pandas.pydata.org>
4. <https://matplotlib.org>
5. <https://seaborn.pydata.org/index.html>
6. <https://jupyter.org/>
